You've never paid attention to textures before.

There is the succession of the silent beers. Of men ill-equiped to deal with
feelings, or grief, especially about something that never was. There's P. that
tries really hard, but we're just here, feeling awkward, like kids about to have
sex the first time. How do we do this? What exactly are we supposed to do. So we
stare down at our beers, while tepid drops of water that condensed on the cold
glass trickle down our fingers. I'm here hoping someone will say something after
"I'm sorry" and "It sucks", but no one does. I am unable to tell my own story.

And then there are the silent heroes who come in, day in, day out. Bring food,
groceries. You'd forgotten about the need to it. They come in, don't say
anything. Fill the fridge. Some come pick J. up, some bring him back. And it
alway seems to be dark outside.

The nail on the coffin is your therapist crying. You've known her for a few
years. Sometimes she feels like a parent, sometimes she feels like your best
friends. It is very unclear what you are projecting on her. Somtimes you wish
you could have parents instead. But this is bigger than what they are capable of
handling emotionally. They are part of the silent heroes.

And the mail that keeps coming from the town, the national health insurance. And
the ads all over the internet. All about babies. At least, city hall you could
call. They apologized, removed you from the list. But who's going to call the
internet and plead it to stop? That's when you leave in the internet for a
while.

You were in this alone. Maybe you isolated yourself with your grief, confined in
it. There were those friends that completely vanished after that first phone
call, those that did not show up when they said they'd come. You will resent
them for a year or so. But was that really their fault? You are probably
anyone's worst emotional nightmare right now. You would probably be yours if
only you could feel anything.

It catches you everyday at the same time, in the morning. Every day, right after
you have dropped his borther at school, you calmly park the car on the side of
the road, at the beginning of this forest road. You walk for a few minutes and
you start crying. It's methodical. You vehemently oppose car pooling, because
you don't want that taken away from you. But you don't say it. This is probably
when men become alcoholic. Alone with their sadness. Why they cheat. To be less
alone with their sadness. That's probably what would have happened if there
wasn't the immense forest to yell at.

Then there's that obsession: when exactly did he die? While he was still inside,
when he came out or once he was out? When did that life, which never really
begin, end. You are looking for a limit, a clear cut between what was going to
be and what was not anymore. And it is funny because it is a question never
worth asking the other way? When what was not became alive? You'd never wondered
that about his two brothers. It does not make sense. But here it does because
you are clinging onto so little that every minute of existence you can get
counts.

They ask you what you want to do with the body but you don't know. You don't
know. You don't know.
